Update pipelineResources deprecation (#6022)
tektoncd/pipeline: docs/deprecations.md

| Feature Being Deprecated                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Deprecation Announcement                                             | [API Compatibility Policy](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/tree/main/api_compatibility_policy.md) | Earliest Date or Release of Removal |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|

> | [PipelineResources are deprecated, along with the components of the API that rely on them.](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md) See [Deprecate `PipelineResources` related features](#deprecate-pipelineresources-related-features) for more info.                                                | [v0.30.0](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/releases/tag/v0.30.0) | Alpha                                                                                                  | Dec 20 2021                         |

Reviewer: NIT: instead of creating a hyperlink with the entire statement, suggest adding a TEP number with a link:

```
PipelineResources are deprecated, along with the components of the API that rely on them as proposed in [TEP-0074](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md)
```

Author: Thanks Priti, that makes it look clearer

| [ClusterTask is deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/4476)                                                                                                                                                | v0.41.0                                                              | Beta                                                                                                   | July 13, 2023                       |
| [`pipelineRef.bundle` and `taskRef.bundle` are deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5514)                                                                                                                 | v0.41.0                                                              | Alpha                                                                                                  | July 13, 2023                       |

> ### Deprecate PipelineResources related features:

Reviewer: suggest "Deprecate**d** PipelineResources related features:" instead of "Deprecate PipelineResources related features:" to be clear

Author: Makes sense!

The following features are deprecated as part of the deprecation of PipelineResources.
See [TEP-0074](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md) for more information.

- the fields`task.spec.resources`, `taskRun.spec.resources`, `pipeline.spec.resources`, `pipelineRun.spec.resources`, and `taskRun.status.cloudEvents`

> - The "kubeconfigwriter" and "imagedigestexporter" images, used by the Cluster PipelineResource and Image PipelineResource, respectively

Reviewer: suggest adding links to [imagedigestexporter](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/release-v0.43.x/pkg/apis/pipeline/images.go#L46) and [KubeconfigWriterImage](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/release-v0.43.x/pkg/apis/pipeline/images.go#L36)

> - The `cloud_event_count` metric

Reviewer: Suggest adding link here as well, are we referring to `tekton_pipelines_controller_cloudevent_count` as documented in https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/blob/main/docs/metrics.md?

Author: Yes, thanks for putting up the link @pritidesai. Updated

| [ClusterTask is deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/4476)                                                                                                                                                | v0.41.0                                                              | Beta                                                                                                   | July 13, 2023                       |
| [`pipelineRef.bundle` and `taskRef.bundle` are deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5514)                                                                                                                 | v0.41.0                                                              | Alpha                                                                                                  | July 13, 2023                       |

> ### Deprecate PipelineResources related features:
> - the `resources` fields of `Task`, `TaskRun`, `Pipeline`, and `PipelineRun`
> The fields related with `PipelineResources` are going to be removed since it has been 9 months after the deprecation announcement. See [TEP074](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md) for detail.
> 
> - images based on `PipelineResources`
> The images that based on `PipelineResources` are also going to be removed, these include `kubeconfigwriter` based on `Cluster` resources, `imagedigestexporter` based on `Image` resources and etc. Those images that will be used by specific `catalog` tasks would be extracted into a separate repo.
> 
> - metrics: `cloud_event_count`
> Mertrics that are sent via `PipelineResources` are going to be deprecated and removed since they will not report any related metrics after the removal.
> 
> - `taskRun.status.cloudEvents`
> The `CloudEventDeliveryState` and `taskRun.status.cloudEvents` are deprecated and will be removed along with the `CloudEvent` resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deprecated PipelineResources related features

The following features are deprecated as part of the deprecation of PipelineResources.
See [TEP-0074](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md) for more information.

- the fields`task.spec.resources`, `taskRun.spec.resources`, `pipeline.spec.resources`, `pipelineRun.spec.resources`, and `taskRun.status.cloudEvents`

- The "kubeconfigwriter" and "imagedigestexporter" images, used by the Cluster PipelineResource and Image PipelineResource, respectively

- The `cloud_event_count` metric
```

Author: Thanks Lee, done.

| [ClusterTask is deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/4476)                                                                                                                                                | v0.41.0                                                              | Beta                                                                                                   | July 13, 2023                       |
| [`pipelineRef.bundle` and `taskRef.bundle` are deprecated](https://github.com/tektoncd/pipeline/issues/5514)                                                                                                                 | v0.41.0                                                              | Alpha                                                                                                  | July 13, 2023                       |

> | [`taskrun.status.cloudEvents` is deprecated along with PipelineResources](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0074-deprecate-pipelineresources.md)                                                                                     | v0.44.0                                                              | Alpha                                                                                                  | Oct 11, 2023                        |

Reviewer 2: suggest removing this line and updating the PipelienResources line to "`PipelineResources` are deprecated, along with the components of the API that rely on them. See [new section] for more info.

Then in the new section, you can list out:
- the `resources` fields of Task, TaskRun, Pipeline, and PipelineRun
- images used by PipelineResources
- cloud_event_count (and any other metrics used by resources)
- taskRun.status.cloudEvents

Author: Thanks Lee. Updated.

*Also regarding that we might want to keep the deprecation.md brief, I didn't add details under the list but I can do so if preferred:)

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth adding some details! I'd include a summary sentence explaining that these are the features deprecated as part of the PipelineResource deprecation, specify which metrics and images are deprecated, and update the section title since not everything being deprecated is an API field.
